in 1988 following his mother's death a
young Peter quill is abducted from Earth
by the Ravagers a group of space pirates
led by yondu 26 years later on the
planet Morag quill steals an orb after
which kaurav a subordinate to the
fanatical Kree Ronan intercepts him
although quill escapes with the orb
yondu discovers his deafness issues a
bounty for his capture
while Ronan sends the assassin Gamora
after the orb
when quill attempts to sell the orb on
the Nova Empire capital worlds and our
Gamora ambushes him and steals it a
fight ensues drawing in a pair of bounty
hunters that genetically and
cybernetically modified raccoon rocket
and the tree like humanoid croute the
Nova Corps arrives and captures the for
detaining them in the kiln while they
are a powerful inmate Drax attempts to
kill Gamora due to her association with
Ronan who killed his family quill
convinces tracks that Gamora can bring
Ronan to him Gamora reveals that she has
betrayed Ronan unwilling to let him use
the orbs power to destroy planets
starting with sand are learning that
Gamora has a buyer for the orb sheik
will rocket group and Drax worked
together to escape from the kiln
elsewhere Ronan meets with gamora's
adoptive father
Thanos to discuss her betrayal
accompanied by Drax quills group escapes
the kiln in his ship the Milano and
pleased to know where a remote criminal
outpost in space builds in a giant
severed head of a celestial a drunken
Drax summons Ronan while the rest of the
group meet gamora's contact the
collector the collector opens the orb
revealing an infinity stone an item of
immeasurable power that destroys all but
the most powerful beings who wield it
suddenly the collectors tormented
assistant grabs the stone triggering an
explosion that engulfs the collectors
archive Ronan arrives and easily defeats
Drax while the others flee by ship
pursued by Ronan's followers and Gamora
sister nebula nebula destroys Gamora
ship leaving her floating in space and
Ronan's forces captured the orb quill
contacts yondu before following Gamora
into space giving her his helmet to
survive yondu arrives and retrieves the
pair rocket Drax and Groot threatened to
attack yondu ship to rescue them the
quill negotiates a truce by convincing
yondu that they can cover the orb
quills group agrees that facing Ronan
certain death but that they cannot let
him use the infinity stone to destroy
the galaxy on Rodin's flagship the dark
aster ronan embeds the stone in this war
hammer taking its power for himself he
contacts Thanos threatening to kill him
after the destruction of x' and are
hateful of her adoptive father nebula
allies with ronan nears and are at the
Ravagers the nova corps and quills group
confront and breached the dark aster
ronan uses his empowered more hammer to
destroy the nova corps fleet on the dark
aster Gamora fights and defeats nebula
she unlocks Ronan's chambers while
nebula is escaping but the group find
themselves outmatched by his power until
rocket crushes the Milano through the
dark aster the damaged dark aster crash
lands on Xander with Groot sacrificing
himself to shield the group Ronan
emerges from the wreck and prepares to
destroy Xandar
but quill distracts him allowing jax and
rocket to destroy Ronan's Warhammer
quill grabs the freed stone and with
Gamora Drax and rocket sharing its
burden they use it to destroy Ronan in
the aftermath krill tricks yondu into
taking a container supposedly containing
the stone and gives the real stone to
the Nova Corps as the Ravagers leaves
and are the undue remarks that it turned
out well that they did not deliver quill
to his father per their contract quills
group now known as the guardians of the
galaxy have their criminal records
expunged and quill learns that he is
only half human his father being part of
an ancient unknown species quill finally
opens the last present he received from
his mother a cassette tape filled with
her favorite songs the Guardians leave
in the rebuilt Milano along with a
sapling cut from Groot in a post-credits
scene the collector sits in his
destroyed archive with two of his living
exhibits a canine cosmonaut and an
anthropomorphic duck also known as
Howard the Duck